I am about to take on the Toastmasters's
introduction to mentoring project within
Pathways level two. And in this video, I
am going to talk about what you should
be thinking about prior to taking on
this speech at Toastmasters. Now to my
understanding every path within the
pathways program requires this
particular speech slp project for
mentoring the introduction to mentoring
where there's the component that you
learn within pathways of what is a
protege what is a mentor and then
ultimately it requires you to do your
own speech five to seven minutes which
is focused on a situation of where you
were a protege
and maybe had an experience with someone
else being your mentor. Within the
pathways curriculum, it describes a
protege as someone who is wanting to
learn from another individual. And this
is regardless of the skill level. So
even if you're an experienced speaker,
perhaps you took Toast Masters years ago
and you're coming back to the program,
you can still be a protege, you can
still have a mentor. In fact, I would
argue in every aspect of life, we can
always improve. We can always be
students of whatever it is that we're
striving to be great at. When it comes
to public speaking, I'm constantly
learning. I have some experience. I have
about 11 years of experience with Toast
Masters, but I can learn a ton from our
fellow members, from Toastmasters in
other parts of the world. And that is
the idea of being a protege is having
that willingness to learn from others
who can help you on your path. Toast
Masters lists several traits of what
makes a great protege, but there are
three that come to mind for me. The
first is adaptability.
The second is open-mindedness. And then
the third is accountability.
So with these, it's this idea that we're
not stuck in our own ways, that we're
actually willing to learn, willing to
hear what somebody's advice is, and then
keeping ourselves accountable to
actually implement some of the changes
or the suggestions that are given to us.
As mentioned, this is a five to seven
minute speech, which is part of the
assignment, and it's talking about the
importance or perhaps an experience of
having a mentor. And it's not a report
about the learnings that you had through
Pathways or anything that has to do with
the Toastmasters mentorship program.
This is specifically a story or a speech
about your experience being a protege
and how a mentor impacted you perhaps
positively or negatively. If you're
struggling with ideas of what you can
speak about on this project, I have a
couple things that you can be thinking
about. The first, what was your first
job? That very first experience. Because
for so many of us, we learn important
life lessons in those early jobs. And
maybe you had a boss or a co-orker who
was a mentor to you. Perhaps you can
also talk about a time that you had a
really great mentor and then maybe
somebody who you hoped would be a great
mentor who ended up not being so great.
And you can contrast those two. So you
can talk about the traits that made
somebody a really good mentor, the
traits that made somebody not such a
great mentor, and then share that
experience. Or perhaps you have a
humorous story, something where you do
have a great mentor, but initially you
weren't sure and you had a hilarious
thing happen and then it brought you
closer together. I don't know what your
experience is, but hopefully these are
some ideas that get the wheels turning
in your head that can help you start to
think about that experience of being a
protege. As I'm preparing for my own
speech, initially my mind went to the
idea of my first jobs and then my later
career and the people from a business or
office environment that were mentors.
That's usually the first place I go when
I think about mentorship. However, I did
some more googling around the definition
of mentorship. But I think for my
speech, which I will end up sharing on
my channel in the coming weeks once I
deliver it at my Toastmasters club, I've
been thinking a little bit about my
parents and how they were sort of
mentors to me in different unique ways.
And so I may draw them in because I've
talked about some of my employers who
have been mentors in the past, but I
think this might be an interesting
opportunity. So maybe you don't have any
great examples from the employment side,
but there's a family member or a friend
who you consider to be a great mentor.
Like any toastmaster speech, in order to
have success, you're going to want to
practice. There should be a video
popping up right now talking about the
importance of practicing any speech. So
check that out because I dive deeper
into the why. You want to think about
the fundamentals and tell a great
speech, but ensuring that the content
matches the assignment. This one is
pretty specific. It's talking about
being a protege. So you want to ensure
that you're falling within the
guidelines. One additional thing I want
to say is that once you've gone through
this level of the project and eventually
as you get on to level three, really
consider putting your hand up and
volunteering in your club to be a
Toastmasters mentor. And when you do
that, I want you to think about yourself
when you first join Toast Masters. and
whether it was a good experience or a
poor experience with your mentor. Think
about the things you were looking for,
the information you were hoping to get.
And make note of that and take the time
if you are assigned someone to mentor a
protege that you meet up with them
preferably in person. Take them for a
cup of coffee. Get to know what it is
that they hope to accomplish through
their Toastmasters journey and then help
them get there. provide advice along the
pathways program, help them and
encourage them to sign up for rules. I
think mentorship is one of the reasons
why Toast Masters is such a successful
program. So, I hope you have a lot of
fun with this speech. Tell a story,
whatever creative way you want to do so,
but I hope this gets you thinking about
the importance of mentorship. For those
of you who have been following my
channel, you know that I have done
several of these level one speeches
throughout Pathways. I'm on the
motivational strategies path. And so,
there's one popping up right now which
is going to help you. If you're brand
new to Pathways and you're thinking,
"Cool, Wade, you're talking about a
level two speech. I need to do my
icebreaker." Well, that is the video
that will be popping up on your screen
right now. I want to thank you so much
for taking the time to watch this video
and check the link in the video
description as well. If you want me to
evaluate one of your speeches, if you'd
like to work with me one on-one, it's a
premium service. I have a standtore link
in the video description which gives you
options to all of those. Thank you for
taking the time to watch this video.
I'll catch you on the next